Welcome to Plar Rose podcast. You are
about to be blessed by the teaching
ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to
be an enlightening time in God's word,
renewing your mind and transforming your
life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray
for you that you are established in all
the truths of God's word taught today.
Let's get right into it.
>> All right, welcome back to the Blush
podcast. This is your daily dose of
God's word transforming it to fulfill
God's purpose for your life. Now very
soon we are tying down this winding down
this teaching on the Eden man. So I
believe this episode and maybe one more
and afterwards we look at developing the
Eden man or the inner man because we
want to make clearer emphasis on some
things than we did when we're looking at
faith stand. But for now, I want to like
show us more text to strongly establish
the reality of the hidden man and to
help us turn our focus and attention to
it to address it so that we can fully
reflect all that God wants. God wants us
to reflect the God wants us to come to
the perfect man in our Eden man. Right?
So he wants us to fully reflect the
reality found in our spirit man in our
Eden man. That would be another way of
saying it. Okay, I've seen that in the
final analysis what accounts for our
work and our pursuits and fulfillment of
God's purpose is the Eden man is not the
spirit nature we have is not the nature
we have in Christ you know I mean it we
we have to have that to be able to walk
in to be able to you know see the
transformation of our you know inner man
to walk as God wants us to but that is
not what accounts for our work. Whatever
we see in a person's work is a product
of their mind. And we are particularly
talking about the spirit of their mind.
Okay. We have seen that Peter is the one
that described this part of our mind
that we're talking about as the Eden
man. He told the women who were married
to husbands who did not believe the
gospel to be mindful of their conduct
that so that they can attract them to
the message for their salvation. And in
addressing how they can bring they can
have that conduct he wants them to have.
He told them do not focus only on
adoning or beautifying or cleaning your
outward man. You know such as arranging
your hair such as wearing clothes or
your jewelry jewelry. Rather he told
them to pay attention to the hidden man
of the heart and to adorn that part of
them with the incorruptible beauty of a
gentle and quiet spirit. So they are
taken of their spirits and ading on
their mind the reality of their spirit.
So for example there is love in their
spirits there's meekness and humility in
their spirit and they are doing the same
on their mind. So you know in their
prayer life their faith stand their
confession their walk I mean anytime you
know they just affirm no I'm a new
creation I'm a love being in Christ and
what they are doing is adoning themsel
refreshing themsel when we get to
developing the inner man that's where I
want to take more time on exactly what
we do there I I referenced it in but I
want us to look more directly at some
text and also where you So we might be
helped by the baptism of the Holy Ghost,
the ability to pray in that tongues in
that regard and maybe it might help you
have clarity about why that is
beneficial to you as well. So having
said that, Peter said, I want to adorn
this part of you. I want you to adorn it
with realities that are found in your
spirit. And he's not talking about
adoning something on your body because
that the outward man calls this one the
hidden man of the heart. So there's an
adoning that should happen on our mind
of our spirit. All right. And Paul also
makes a reference to that in Ephesians 3
and:16. He wants us to strengthen via
our spirit or via our spirit in union
with the spirit of God given to us. He
wants us to strengthen that inner man.
In fact, I should have shown you
something. It says in that Ephesians
chapter 3 which is in verse 17 you see
the result of that said I want you to be
strengthened with might by the spirit in
the inner man that Christ may dwell in
your heart. Can you see that? You see
the same issue Christ dwells in your
heart through faith and this cannot be
salvific faith because of course Christ
was already dwelling in their heart by
faith. I mean if you read the earlier
portion of um Ephesians even a text like
Ephesians 1:23 already says the body of
Christ is the fullness of Christ
dwelling all in all that means is
dwelling in is in all his measure in
every person so the fullness of him that
filleth all persons in all its measures
in all its measure and how do we know
that because you'll find several texts
some in Ephesians like Ephesians 3 I
think 20 and there's one in Colossians
where we say you have filled all the
fullness of God or yeah with all the
fullness of God. So you're already
saying fullness but use all the
fullness. It's it's like being emphatic
and absolute. You entirely have what is
of God's nature. So he says the church
is the fullness of Christ filling all
that will be all persons in all in all
its measures literally because the word
fullness generally might just be seen as
the nature but putting all the fullness
would then be clear to say like
absolutely nothing is missing you know
in the nature not just that you do have
the nature you completely do have the
nature you have all the fullness of God.
So here when he says that he wants us to
be strengthened with might through the
spirit in our inner man that Christ will
dwell in our hearts by faith he's
talking about the same thing he said in
Ephesians 4:13 which is you come to the
perfect man the measure of the stature
of the fullness of Christ so the this
growth happens this strengthening
happens this adoning happens so much so
that you are visibly simply walking and
living Christ you are a living breathing
Christ
and this is promised on one your
salvation your spirit has been changed
and two now your growth first by
knowledge but we are seeing directly by
faith stand Christ will dwell in your
heart through faith
that we could see on this and I also
hope that when we look through you know
a number of these things that I hope
that you realize that the bulk of the
epistles
are focused on this issue of our growth.
Amen. So they are they really helping us
to grow to become stronger to walk as
the Lord would have us do and they are
not doing something different from the
Old Testament text. Whilst we have
different forms of literature at play
whenever you see the Old Testament text
in its more expository form. you see the
same type of emphasis maybe like Joshua
18 and one you know that are speaking to
the way our growth happens even in
Deuteronomy but we are not getting into
that here now I haven't said that so in
Ephesians 3 we have seen it mentioned
the inner man Ephesians 4 he talks about
us being the perfect man by growth by
the work of the church so of course he's
pointing to the Eden man or inner man
becoming the perfect man which is
reflecting Christ fully the measure of
the stature of the fullness of Christ.
After this he says I don't want you to
walk like the rest of the Gentiles do. I
want which is because of their mind. I
want you to be renewed in the spirit of
your mind. So another description of
this hidden man or inner man is the
spirit of your mind. As we're concluding
the last episode we talked about the
hidden man or inner man being described
as soul. And we saw that in Philippians
chapter 2:19 downward. So the hidden man
or the inner man can be described as
soul. Paul said Timothy is like-minded
with me. And he wasn't just saying
Timothy shares the same knowledge with
me. He actually used that word Timothy
is of equal soul with me. And because
soul is a very big word. If you remember
when we studied on the mind of man. Soul
can refer to the entity of the human
person which cuts across the inward and
outward man. Right? So it's both your
spirit and body can be called your soul.
One of the texts that makes this
obvious, I've avoided it a bit because I
don't want to go into to take more time
examining it, but Hebrews chapter 4:12
when he talked about the word of God is
living and powerful, sharper than any
sword, dividing uh piercing even onto
dividing and of bones and mar soul and
spirit and is a descender of the
thoughts and intents of the of the
heart.
Now the way that was framed was the
writer was making the comparison between
the between the whole and the part.
Notice bone and marrow. So there's the
bone but the marrow is inside the bone.
Then when he says the thoughts and
intents of the art. So is in the
plethora of our thoughts that the
conclusion happens the intent your
decision from your reasoning your
thoughts then your decision your
deliberation then your decision the
intent of the the art. Then you use that
same framework and he said soul and
spirit. So it was in that text making
spirit a sub of the entire life that we
have. So when we think of soul
understandably right now many people
think of soul automatically as mind but
within the scriptures it wasn't that way
you know soul is more of the entire
person and then both the body and the
spirit are sub
soul of a living person that's an im
living person. So, he has a spirit, he
has a body that makes up that person.
So, 3,000 persons were saved. 3,000
souls were saved. And that's not 3,000
spirits were saved. Neither is it 3,000
minds were saved. It's just 3,000
persons, spirits and body, which
includes the mind with the spirit, the
brain with the body. So, they are saved
persons. But there are times where the
use of soul when examined. Now when he
says he's likeminded with me as equal
with me, it means that the kind of life
he's expressing you know is same as
mine. But the reason for that life the
walk he's speaking to because it's not
expressing the same phys is of course is
not of the same physical stature
necessarily as Paul is speaking
precisely to something else as the soul.
Okay, you know what? Let me get to the
other text so it becomes clearer. So the
hidden man can also be described as soul
because soul is a dynamic word. That's
all I'm pointing out to us. Let's see
Ephesians chapter 6. Then we also see
Colossians 3. In Ephesians chapter 6,
when Paul was encouraging the saints on
their natural assignment at this point,
he was still encouraging the ones that
are like employees. In this case, he
calls them bond servants. He also speaks
to the masters because we are all under
the lordship of Christ. We are all under
the lordship of Christ in our natural
assignment. He told the bond servants to
obey their masters according to the
flesh with fear and trembling in
sincerity of heart as to Christ not with
eye service as men pleasers but as born
servants of Christ doing the will of God
from the heart. That last phrase I just
read from the heart is actually the word
euk as well. So out of the heart so we
are doing the will of God out of the
soul. And here for sure is you can say
oh you didn't do God from your life but
that's not the intention it's talking
about from this part of your mind that
has been so developed adoned
strengthened you know you have built
yourself to so function like this you no
longer see your natural assignments your
endeavors in the natural as something
ordinary you see it as what God has
given to you to do so you are doing it
out of your soul out of that reckoning
or consciousness that this is what the
Lord has given to you. That exact
thought is found in Colossians 3 as well
when he was given the same instruction.
He says, "Born servant obeying all
things your masters according to the
flesh, not with eye service as men
pleasers, but in sincerity of outfearing
God." Colossians 3:22. Now look at verse
23. And whatever you do, do it at
there's actually two separate words e
and do it out of your soul as to the
Lord and not to men. That means he's
saying don't just do it because I'm
instructing it and grudgingly. Do it
because you are convinced. But not just
convinced you have built yourself to
that you have you know you have
presented yourself that way so that you
have grown to that measure to be able to
so function and present yourself like
that. So whatever you do do withas to
the Lord and not to men. So it's so
important that we recognize there is
this reality and that it was not ignored
by the apostles where they recognize
there is this part of us that we need to
work on. So don't walk like the Gentiles
in the futility of their mind. Their
understanding is darkened. Something has
happened to your own mind. Number one,
your mind has become enlightened. You
now know the truth of the word. So you
have the conviction of truth on your
mind. Right? But number two, something
should have happened to the spirit of
your mind. You have learned from Christ.
Not only the truth, but that you should
put off the old man and be renewed in
the spirit of your mind and put on the
new. So you didn't learn from Christ
just to be convinced of what he reveals
and teaches. You learn from Christ to
renew the spirit of your mind.
You learn from Christ to renew the
spirit of your mind. If we don't work on
this reckoning or consciousness part of
our mind, which is what defines the
faith that makes for our work, the
second kind of faith, you know, the
first kind of faith being the salvific
faith. If we don't work on this part of
us, we are going to be ineffective in
our Christian lives. So, you might find
believers and you're like, why is this
fellow walking like this? because he has
a lot of garbage in that part of his
mind or he had rather or maybe still
does before salvation and that needs to
be addressed. He needs to work on that
Eden man. So, in the next episode, we'll
do a final wrap- up on the Eden Man, and
I hope to look at some text from the
Lord Jesus to just give maybe
perspective to his own reference to this
part of our mind. And then from there,
in the next episode, we start to look at
developing the inner man, which is
something people might call training the
human spirit, but it's essentially
developing the inner man. See you there.
>> We trust you were blessed by today's
episode. Do stay in faith about all
you've heard to walk in it. To learn
more of God's word, visit pleose.org.
You will find answers to your questions
on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how
to fulfill it. Whilst on our website,
don't forget to join the Plurose
community channel on WhatsApp and follow
us on all our social media handles at
Plurose_Hog.
For now, stay blessed and keep walking
in his purpose.